well I think that being alive is an
anomalous experience it
is I've been trying to interview our
next guest since I started American
Alchemy a couple of years ago her book
was perhaps the biggest Catalyst for my
early interest in UFOs her name is
mentioned in literally every interview
I've done Diana Pula Diana Pula Diana
Pula Diana P I love her book American
Cosmic I I love I love her work and yes
she's American alchemy's white whale our
Moby Dick if you will I've never been so
trolled in my life yeah yeah we finally
caught up to her in paloalto right after
the launch of her new book encounters
and before Gary Nolan's Soul conference
a meeting of some of the best academic
military and civilian Minds in UFO
research at Stanford University we don't
believe or disbelieve in my field but I
fully didn't believe I was like why are
people believing in these things that
they miss say in the sky Di is a
religious studies professor at
University of North Carolina Wilmington
she's versed in the classics and
maintains a deep knowledge of Catholic
history while doing research for a book
on Purgatory she wrote called Heaven Can
Wait in 2014 she began to document
dozens of historical cases of nuns
priests brothers and Saints who had
reported direct Divine or Angelic
contact but here's where the story gets
interesting Dr Pula did her own own
translations of these contact
experiences she didn't take the official
Church translations for granted and in
many cases her direct translations
didn't exactly sound like the official
versions of the
story take St Francis of aisi a 12th
century Italian frier the popular
narrative is that St Francis saw Christ
under the appearance of a saraf or angel
on Mount lerna in Italy but the first
English translations of this experience
from Thomas of salana don't mention
anything about Christ instead the
original translations describe Francis
encountering a sound in Fury atmospheric
Sparks and a flaming torch telepathic
communication between Francis and the
torch occurs in which Francis is treated
harshly and wounded with rays of light
that rip through his hands francis's
wounds get interpreted as Christ stigma
this looks very similar to things that
people talk about today radiation damage
could this the same radiation damage
that occurs in what we now call UFO
experiences the people getting like
Burns so that's ultraviolet that's like
ionizing radiation so that would be
light being blue shifted into the
ultraviolet as it's lens across the
bubble that the craft creates and you're
getting literally a sunburn are Modern
gry Aliens just the Angels or Demons of
times past you had like uh you know
witches sitting on the chests of people
feeling paralyzed in medieval times
times it's like our overlay is this
classic alien kind of motif and what
about flying saucers or discs are they
just the Flaming chariots or burning
Shields or wheels of antiquity Ezekiel
Saw the Wheel baby first chapter I'm
with you what we're talking about is in
some sense a modern
Reformation just as Martin Luther
believed the word of God was all one
needed for salvation Diana is going back
to the original texts and translations
of divine contact events and finding all
sorts of commonalities with modern-day
alien contact experiences this is a new
form of religion it's not just a
religion cuz we do have UFO religions
right but this is a new form of religion
and the Contemporary mythology defines
how we discuss or recollect these
experiences as French philosopher on re
brione wrote the eyes can only see what
the mind is prepared to comprehend
people have been seeing the same stuff
like so the Tic Tac of today was the
Flying butane tank totally of the 1950s
it's almost like you have like a meme
library in your head and then you have
this higher platonic thing that's
happening and you attach the the closest
meme that you can to it yeah exactly so
are we just now getting closer to the
root layer of religion understanding its
Proto architecture its Universal
Timeless nature maybe we're looking at
the source code the point is we're all
getting a little closer to the light
seeing beyond the Shadows of Plato's
Cave and Diana is helping us get there
so on that note please enjoy this
riveting simulation breaking
conversation with this week's American
Alchemist Dr Diana Walsh
[Music]
Pula different parts of the rain have
different activities but you know that
don't
you people you maybe you should
interview
[Music]
me
Diana Walsh pela is an amazing religious
studies professor at UNCC Wilmington
she's the author of two books American
Cosmic and encounters and I think people
don't even realize that you before David
grush you were almost the first person
in the civilian context to out these
sort of secret space programs and the
book is incredible I'm so grateful
you're here I know we've tried to make
this happen a few times and I'm just
honored to be with you absolutely I'm so
happy to be here and thanks for for the
invite I think the first thing that
maybe uh we want to talk about is that
American Cosmic opens at a crash
retrieval site that was in 2016 that I
went with um with people that I had to
have as pseudonyms okay so now Gary
Nolan has come out and that's actually a
relief to me that he's come out as
himself and the reason why we went was
because Tyler who's still a pseudonym um
for a person who is a mission controller
and works in the space force and I'd
been studying this topic but truly I
didn't believe in it right I just was on
the fence of belief or disbelief which
is kind of the method that we use we
don't believe or disbelieve in my field
but I fully didn't believe I was like
why are people believing in these things
um you know that they miss see say in
the sky and belief is gone up and so I
wanted to know why and I had a feeling
it had to do with entertainment media
right and that's what I was looking at
and the implication with Tyler is almost
CU he worked on the NASA Challenger
Mission and he had a colleague an
astronaut famously die in ' 86 and he he
worked on a lot of space missions since
then and high up in NASA and the
implication is almost from your book
that he's using his Consciousness in
some way in mission control or was he
somehow CU he's he feels very tapped
into some sort of network where he gets
ideas he's he says that he goes to a
room where there's a machine and he
doesn't know exactly what the machine
does but he gets a lot of ideas about
biomedical Innovations and goes on to
actually start companies that are super
successful and so what is the link
between space fair and Consciousness is
there a clear link or well okay these
are things that I think were working out
yeah so what I noticed was ex exactly
what you noticed so the traj
of his professional
life was incredibly lucky yes yeah like
this was a guy who was so lucky that it
just seemed improbable how could you be
that lucky right you know I mean also he
wasn't the best in college almost
flunked out even that's interesting and
didn't go to the best college right so
the more how did he get into space I
know well he told me all these stories
about how these things happened to him
and every time he told me a story about
this I was like that's highly unlikely
and improbable but it did truly happen
right so I began to like see what he did
I began to like study him right so he
had a protocol he used use these things
that I later called protocols but they
reminded me as a person who studies
religion these protocols that people use
in each religion and one of them
obviously is prayer or meditation in the
Eastern Traditions actually at the time
I started to practice these protocols
because I was really incredible L busy
and drank too much coffee you know
didn't sleep well it wasn't a bad life
it's just that I was really busy so he
would talk about connecting he would go
into some type of a state when he woke
up he made sure he got a lot of sleep he
made sure that he was hydrated okay well
now we know why hydration is really
important because you know our bodies
are like 80% water around that and water
conducts so if there are electrical
things happening you just have to be
hydrated and so he made sure he was
hydrated so he made sure that his
biophysical self was able to connect
with this thing that he said and he
explained how it felt it would feel like
a signal coming in um and then he would
get the information that he needed to do
these Technologies or create these
businesses so this is a it's kind of a
crazy weird question but jacqu fet has
clearly influenced you a lot sort of in
some ways the Godfather of modern UFO
research one of the early pioneers of
the internet um but also talked about
how UFOs work as sort of control systems
you intermittent reinforcement to sort
of maybe uh control Societies in ways
that we don't even fully understand and
he's also interested in Fallen Angels
you talk about this in encounters that's
right and also demons and and and
so Angels and Demons what what does this
have to do with modern uthology uh yeah
yeah okay so yeah so this is a scene in
encounters yes where I'm I'm having
lunch with jacqu Val so we're in his
study and it's really amazingly
beautiful here in the Bay Area um and he
starts to um explain a couple of things
to me and I notic a bunch of books on
shelves and I noticed those things right
yeah so I go and I start to look to see
what he has on this one shelf and then
he takes one of the books off and it was
uh a book about angels and he says of
course you can't have one without the
other right and so we went out and had
some C some coffee and pastries yeah um
in his living room and so we talked and
he asked me what I learned from Tyler
yeah he said what did we learn from
Tyler and at the
at the time I was like you got my
book you know I was thinking you got my
book Jack you know but then I thought
what did we learn from Tyler so I
couldn't really answer him and
thankfully I took too long to answer him
because he picked up another book and he
said you need to read this book and
whenever he says that to me of course
I'm going to get the book and read it
but this one was weird so he showed it
to me and it was the history of Satan it
was it just had the big words on it that
says Satan and again if I wasn't a
little bit concerned before I was
absolutely concerned at that point I was
like you know jacqu Val is handing me
this book that says Satan on it and so
he he uh he said look at the pagination
so I you know looked at the pagination
it was 666 who yeah I thought that was
so you know of course wow it was a
really weird moment and he said that in
the states we think of the we think of
Satan or the devil as really really
terrible right but you know he said that
the French they have a different view of
it and it's a much it's less
sensationalist that's what he was saying
and then he he had another bookshelf and
it was the same thing so he picked out a
book and it was he made a joke you know
he's really funny as you know right he's
super funny and so he made a joke and he
said feels like he's always trolling you
a little bit I'm serious that's exactly
how he is he is and it's almost like the
work that he talks about where you know
it's like the hand of the sound of one
hand clapping the Zen cone or what the
absurdity of the phenomena itself it
almost feels like it comes through him
and the way he speaks is sort of like
confusing and it's like he throws like a
smoke bomb and you're like what did you
say and you like you end up trying to
parse it even more than you would if it
were immediately clear because you would
just be like okay yeah I'll meet you at
this place or whatever but he uses a
word and you're like what's going on
there and then sort of you're more
motivated to yeah yeah I agree my son
burn it it is from the devil I've never
been so trolled in my
life throughout this whole study you
know I was just like this normal kind of
Professor of religious studies doing my
thing and all of a sudden boom and all
of a sudden I'm my life you know becomes
this crazy town well that the
hermeneutic reading of American Cosmic
is that you start out this analytical
rigorous academic and it's all of a
sudden the you know Observer observed
wall breaks down and you are sort of
converted yourself into a UFO believer
it's so interesting I know it's really
really so
strange here's why Diana's Book American
Cosmic changed me and many people I know
forever it starts off not only skeptical
of UFOs but as a pretty rational
academic take on the subject in fact the
first half of the book almost reads like
a dismissal of UFOs as a modern Scion
discussing how TV and media are very
influential in defining how people
recollect their alien or UFO sightings
for example she talks about Betty and
Barney Hill in
1961 seeing aliens with eyes wrapped
around the rim of their heads but were
they just being subliminally influenced
by the CBS show Outer Limits that also
show aliens with horizontal slit leg
eyes the show premiered just a couple of
weeks before the couple's reported
abduction experience Diana also writes
about the monolith in 2001 Space Odyssey
and how it may not represent an alien
artifact that inspires Tech Innovation
but actually a digital screen that
manipulates our 3D lower reality in fact
2001's director Stanley kubric said in a
1969 interview that interpreting the
monolith as an alien artifact is the
movie's most superficial interpretation
kubric even initially experimented with
the monolith literally being a screen
that flashes targets for the Apes to hit
with rock
almost a visual hunting manual flashing
shapes and colors for the Apes to learn
increasingly abstract Concepts and
evolve in the novelized version of 2001
written by Arthur C Clark the monolith
above astronaut David Bowman's bed was
actually just a TV so is the monolith
just the smoke screen in Plato's Cave
Diana goes even deeper on the
possibility of a UFO scop she gets into
modern UFO Cults like Dorothy Martin and
her followers a group of Midwestern
rapturous that believed that they were
recipients of a UFO prophecy about an
impending Apocalypse in
1954 which of course never happened okay
so media subtly influences our UFO
experiences the monolith isn't an alien
artifact it's a screen that manipulates
our reality and we have a bunch of crazy
UFO Cults running around our modern UFO
is just a scop built in a Disney Studio
but as soon as you're ready to write
UFOs off as a big scop something kind of
crazy happens in the book she meets the
pseudonymously named Tyler who worked as
a NASA Mission controller since the80s
but also worked in an alleged secret
space program where he used specific
protocols to mentally download
information instrumental for biotech
companies that he founded he's
definitely atypical of a space force guy
you know rocket scientist you have a
certain stereotype of these guys and
they're not driving really awesome cars
or flying around in Jets but that's what
he was doing he actually said he was
interested in what I studied and you
know I study religious studies now he's
not the first Aerospace guy who's asked
me about my work so I had been asked by
some people that I later found out were
part of what we call the invisible
College these scientists who study you
know this topic and I had been doing
some work on um pretty much historical
Angel events yeah and they wanted to see
what I was doing and I thought who are
these people from an aerospace company
who are interested in this so I sent him
to work right she also meets Dr Gary
Nolan a tenured Stanford professor and
microbiologist with his own mental
protocols Dr Nolan would later go on to
use his Stanford lab to attempt to do
Material Science analysis on what he
thinks might be UFO crash Parts Tyler
takes Diana and Gary blindfolded to a
UFO crash site in New Mexico together it
was a secret place uh on government land
it was a New Mexico crash retrieval
place and it was a place that you know
was not Roswell but this is what Tyler
told me he said there were a few crashes
that happened in the 1940s they then
find UFO crash materials with anomalous
isotope ratios not generally found on
Earth we did find things but they
weren't easy to find if they were placed
there they were placed so far down rocks
that had been there for looked like a
hundred years you know like stuff that
you just couldn't get if all this sounds
insane it initially did to me too but
reality is insane or at least it's a
little weirder than you think it's so
interesting I know it's really really so
strange the thing about it is it's a
both and so you say you know uh at first
you think the book is going to be about
Walt Disney did it all and scoped us and
things like that well it's both and it's
like yes there were Sops that happened
and yes there is a phenomena that exists
and so I guess that is the hardest thing
to convey is that people want either or
you know they want either there's
nothing and we're being fooled and you
know bad on you government or yeah whoa
it's it's it's really the space people
are here and they're going to save us
what if I mean it's it's way more
complicated than that and what if per
yours and jock valle's work where you
can compare past you know uh St Francis
of aisi or the Ecstasy of St Teresa feel
like modern alien abduction experiences
and or jock Val and passport Tim Magonia
would say you know in Celtic medieval
Island you might see a leprechaun or a
fery and now you're seeing an alien what
if it it is both because I've never seen
a document leaked from the government
that says we are going to wholesale
fabricate UFOs like there that never
exists what you do see a lot of is
Walter B Smith the director of the CIA
in 1953 saying we're going to play up
the phenomena for psychological warfare
purposes in Cold War so you're using an
existing underlying phenomena for your
own purposes right and so this the
modern space alien stuff that might be
the smoke screen we're seeing we're
we're just seeing the veil and we're
seeing these sort of uh low-level memes
or motifs and yet in a in a weird way
there's this has been going on
transcending SpaceTime this is this has
been going on across history yeah and
these really profound ways and that's
not a scop that is so real yes and
experiences people have are real totally
totally
real in the late 1800s while sleeping in
her small cell in a Catholic Convent a
young nun named sister Maria was
awakened by a shining object like a
flame that appeared to emerge from her
room's wall and hover above her no one
in the convent believed her but she
convinced the Mother Superior to stay up
with her one night lo and behold the
flame emerged from the wall and hovered
over the two women the Mother Superior
determined that the flame must be a soul
stuck in purgatory in need of prayer now
cut to the 20th century Melissa in her
early 20s saw a ball of light come
through the sliding doors of her
apartment bounce around the room go down
the hall and into the other room she
followed the light around the room
before it went back outside through the
same sliding doors this is an exact
description of a UFO encounter from John
Max 1994 book abduction Mack was the
head of the Harvard Psychiatry
Department who devoted the end of his
life to studying alien and UFO
experiencers and this description of an
orb bouncing around Melissa's room
sounds exactly like the 19th century
Catholic nuns
experience are these two experiences the
same thing one with a religious overlay
and the other interpreted as paranormal
or
extraterrestrial in the age of
disenchantment and
secularization where even Garden variety
people who follow religion often don't
actually believe in the metaphysical
reality of the religion it almost feels
like the most charismatic thing that you
can believe is something that really
marries science and religion which the
UFO thing does yes because it is it is
both nuts and bolts and and space and it
is angels and demons and and
spirituality that's right and so there's
something highly charismatic about it
that I think we would both say on a go
forward basis it's probably just going
to keep grow growing yes and um so what
what I'm getting at I guess is it can it
could be really negative and it can be
really positive and so how do you how do
you make sense of that like angels and
and and demons and it can be both and
there's a book called B deviled and it's
about the history of demons in science
and you know whether it's you know James
Clerk Maxwell or leel or
dekart uh a lot of these people had
experiences with sort of demonic
entities
and so and Socrates SP spoke to a Damon
so one letter off from demon and so is
like is and then some of these
inventions are like really positive for
Humanity and then at other times they're
cataclysmic and destructive and horrible
so what's going on yeah yeah oh gosh
that's a big question you know how am I
gonna answer it I don't know how about
if I have a conversation about it okay
let's do it okay okay paretic yeah
exactly exactly dialectic dialectic yeah
so it is true that you say it's the UFO
melds science and religion yeah right
and it's not going away okay well this
is what I saw before I wrote American
Cosmic and I said this is a new form of
religion yeah it's not just a religion
because we do have UFO religions right
yeah okay but this is a new form of
religion and this is this is going to
happen and I kind of I kind of tried to
stay with that thesis you know this is
how it's going to happen and I talked
about how me is going to kind of it's
the infrastructure that's going to um
you know is going to disseminate through
all kinds of different screens right and
we're just going to be converted through
these screens but I didn't I didn't
figure that I would have experiences
myself going through the study of it and
that I would then think okay something
is happening here and that's what
happened yeah well that that's and now
I'm I'm just going to be open about it
because it's it feels like the cats out
of the bag with all this stuff I used to
try I used to try to maintain sort of
impartiality and then you know the book
I would always give people when they
were skeptical is a book called UFOs and
nukes by a guy named Robert Hastings
yeah great book amazing book and it's
super dry and hard-headed and that's why
I would give it to people and I recently
connected with him two weeks ago and he
was like I've had a lot of anomalous
experiences since I've started studying
the phenomena I've had a lot of weird
experiences since I've gotten into this
and and I've never said this before
publicly but my dad's Godfather is a guy
named Rod Serling who created The
Twilight Zone and did the made the most
famous UFO documentary in the I think it
was the 50s or 60s and then I made this
thing with grush or whatever you know
like like a couple months ago and it's
just this weird thing where you you
start to feel even more connected to it
and a completely impart you the the goal
of science is to stay impartial but it's
sort of possible with this and everybody
I know who's at the Forefront of
disclosure whether it's you or Gary
Nolan or any of they admit that they've
had sort of anomalous experiences
themselves and so have have you had you
don't have to talk about it if you don't
feel comfortable but have you had any
experiences like that well I think that
being alive is an anomalous experience
it is yeah and that we just have defense
mechanisms to keep us from recognizing
it yes and I think what happens is that
the UFO comes along and busts your
defense mechanisms yes so you saw my
defense mechanism bust in American
Cosmic and a lot of people did and then
it went out and busted theirs too
because I was so honest about it I was
like this is going to happen this a new
religiosity you know let's do this
academically and then boom Oh what this
is for Real it is for real and then okay
if it's for real what does it mean and
that's my followup was like so I you
know my followup was like if it's for
real then what it means is that we
better take life pretty darn seriously
yes okay so if it doesn't cause you to
go off the deep end I think what it does
is it causes you to I hate to say this
word but or this term but go on the
straight and narrow yes absolutely
because if you don't I basically don't
drink anymore I have very little Caffe I
never have caffeine basically and and
you feel more sensitive to reality way
and and and then you and then you you
end up having to go in the straighten
era you have to
sort it's a foring function that's
that's what oh very good Jesse it's a
forcing function I'm going to now use
that term I tried to understand what it
was been when I told people that these
people aren't holy yes but they are
doing this and they're doing this
because they have to do it and that's
not a choice you know these visitations
in a way are kind of like a modern
mystery event people don't just walk
away traumatized in some cases they do
uh but in other cases I mean transformed
for the better well it's almost like as
you study this you become uh and this is
not scientific terminology but like a
higher
frequency but non-specific amplifier or
receptor and so as you get deeper into
it you pick up more you become much more
sensitive and bad stuff can glom onto
you more easily and so it's almost like
CS loose the screw tape letter where you
have to be hyper Vigilant yeah but you
also are tapped into really good stuff
too and it's like an amplification or
intensification of what somebody who H
isn't on the path yet might experience
let's talk about a specific example the
one I love is St Francis of aisi where
the UFO experience becomes a forcing
function to become a better person but
also that involves a lot of hardship for
him he starts out this sort of popular
you know life Life Of The Party Guy and
then he has you experience and like
basically like dies from it oh do you
want to tell the full account yeah okay
so what happens is that Francis is
praying and something comes out of the
sky and the way that it's
described is that there's a lot of like
Sparks and it seems kind of
spinning and there's an there's an eye
right that comes down and uh and there's
different versions of it too so that's
what people need to know is that there's
the artistic version of it and the
dogmatic version of it so the
information I was able to get was that
the angel was harsh with him okay now
I'm not quite sure what that means but
that's how it gets translated so it's he
it deals harshly with him and he
receives Burns maybe so this is then
interpreted as being the Stigmata and
it's interpreted as as the Angel Like
Jesus talking to him like you know how
this messenger com coming down and
talking to him now this isn't unlike
things that you see today like in
contemporary you know UFO that's the the
thing that I was trying to point out was
that this looks very similar to things
that people talk about today radiation
damage and all the stuff K green and
Gary Nolan's work I mean that's when it
really hit me was I was actually at the
the New Mexico site and we hadn't gone
there yet it was the night before and we
were all just hanging out having a beer
and Gary decided he was going to share
his research with us and photos and
everything and took like two hours to go
through a lot of this stuff and I was
horrified at you know because he's doing
he's in and in fact part of his
motivation was to try to stop this from
happening right to people do you think
that my mind went for whatever reason
when you were talking talking about the
story of uh St Francis of bisi To The
Ark of the Covenant and the holy holiest
of holies and you have to be a certain
level of Purity to make contact and if
you don't then somehow it does violence
to you or something so do okay so this
question of your Purity or else okay um
so in a lot of traditions that have
these you know that discuss this contact
with non-human intelligences whether we
interpret them as like deities or you
know UFOs or whatnot um a lot of them do
have these this idea similar idea as in
the merba tradition right you do have to
be and by the way you also see this in
the socratic tradition but strangely
it's with
philosophy you know so they you have to
be a certain age and you have to have
done so much math and purified yourself
in order to understand philosophy like
truth and things like that um so yeah
yeah so you see this so now do I don't
know if that's true or not but this is
you know this is the
historical fact that people believe this
and people have prepared themselves to
to do this now listen when people ask me
because a lot of people do I have people
say I go talk to a class or you know do
some podcast and I'll have somebody ask
me how can I make contact right and I
don't recommend that at all yeah right
right especially not in some sort of
recreational you know like it's fun or
whatever like good luck you yeah yeah I
don't recommend it do it's dangerous I
think if it happens it'll happen when
you least expect it and you should just
reality is set up the way it is for a
reason I think you can just move through
your own life and uh contemplate virtue
and get where you need to go through
that and then I do think yeah yeah it's
like staring at the sun for tooo long
when you yeah kind of study this stuff
or whatever it's the heroic dose yeah
yeah totally just don't do it just don't
do it or or two steps forward one step
back and you know but it but really yeah
don't go don't always go looking for it
and do you think that the last supper
was some sort of hermetic ritual was
like maybe maybe um a mystery ritual
like there's a um another religious
studies professor at uh Princeton I
believe named Elaine Pagel I know her
you know her yeah she's great and she
wrote beyond belief yeah she's great and
she talks about the uh Gospel of of
Thomas yeah and how Jesus Takes Thomas
aside Whispers secret words to him M and
maybe the whole thing even if you read
the book of John the whole thing there's
a reading of it where the whole thing
feels a little more choreographed than
yes absolutely expect and so do you
think maybe the wine was like the Kon
you know this Greek drink spiked with
Urgot that maybe allowed him to see
Beyond the Veil and then there's this
other s this we're getting deep
conspiracy territory but I'm friends
with Randall Carlson and you know Brian
rescu and they suspect maybe Jesus never
died and um Joseph of ARA actually just
uh took Jesus in who was lifeless when
pilate sort of poked him but actually
resuscitated him with herbs this is
probably all very heretical for you're a
religious studies Professor so if you
feel like you need to say this is
please just let me know pag is
also studies yeah so she's she studies
Heretics so yeah okay well so is there
any we don't have any we're not like
practitioners or if we are we don't
bring it into our
work certain Gnostic interpretations of
the New Testament maintain the belief
that Jesus actually never died that the
last supper was all more of a
choreographed mystery ritual then meets
the eye where Jesus was sedated and then
resuscitated take Luke 22:10 Jesus tells
the disciples keep your eyes open as you
enter the city A man carrying a water
jug will meet you follow him home then
speak with the owner of the house the
teacher wants to know where is the guest
room where I can eat the Passover meal
with my
disciples already there are references
to something going on behind the scenes
who's the guy with the water jug then in
the Book of Matthew Jesus says verily I
say unto you that one of you shall
betray me so he knows he's about to be
betrayed and then he drinks hisop an
herbal sedative maybe so the Romans
think he's dead in fact the popular
account has Jesus dying within 6 hours
while on the cross which doesn't really
make biological sense the apocryphal
Gospel of Thomas goes even further these
are the secret sayings which the living
Jesus Jesus spoke in which Judas Thomas
wrote down and he said whoever finds the
interpretation of these sayings will not
experience
death so all of a sudden the disciples
supposedly betraying Jesus is maybe his
closest Confidant recording the secret
knowledge of immortality Joseph of ARA
who is supposedly a disciple as well
indicating that there are more than 12
disciples then comes to retrieve Jesus's
body Joseph embalms him with herbs myrrh
and Alo which you might do if you were
trying to resuscitate someone the text
even reads that pilate granted Joseph
the corpse of Jesus using the Greek term
P or a lifeless body but when Joseph
asks for the body of Jesus he uses the
word Soma meaning to save heal or make
the body whole finally when the
disciples go to roll away the stone of
the Sepulcher it had already been rolled
away maybe by a recently resuscitated
Jesus Is there any chance do you think
that the last supper was a mystery
ritual okay so I have to talk as a not
practitioner here sure you know of and
as a religious stat Professor so listen
when I look at uh that ritual yeah you
know the uh the Last Supper yeah which
is they're Jewish so it's a Seder right
yeah exactly Passover yeah yeah okay but
we have to wonder why it was up taken
then into the the Roman Catholic Church
cuz it wasn't like the Agape feasts they
weren't really that they weren't that
ritual right so then let's think about
this what distinguishes like um certain
types of Institutions or societies from
some sorts of Institutions that are more
like smaller institutions like tribal
Villages or indigenous communities they
basically believe in the presence of you
know spirituality in many many things
like in forests in rivers you know Sky
beings in trees and things like that so
there's a sense of presence well then
you know what happens in the institution
of Rome is there's this like there's no
presence right and so you make this what
they're doing is they're recreating
presence I think so and what do you mean
by presence exactly well okay so if
you're Catholic and you're Orthodox you
know this that that ritual is supposed
to be when the priest does the
transubstantiation of it's supposed to
be the actual presence of Jesus you hear
the bell in the mass it goes deep and
then that's the presence not just the
it's also the bread and the wine become
the blood and the body and that's not
symbolic for Catholics or for orthodox
it becomes symbolic for
Protestants and so oh wow so is this is
Catholicism more uh
sort of cannibalistic than we realize or
something like eating yeah I mean yeah
there's like an alter yeah I mean I hate
to tell you this and you'd be shocked
this is H this happens to my students
when we talk about you know I say okay
when you went because but a lot of them
are Protestants so they they don't know
that this is what Catholics and Orthodox
Christians are doing when they're like
doing this thing on the Altar and this
brings me back to the let's talk about
Rene Gerard yeah let's do it because
Renee Gerard is like this is exactly
what he's talking about because he talks
a lot about structural violence right
structural violence so he basically
asks why are we so mean to each other
like why do we always feel the need to
kill one another like what is this and
so I think about my life you know as a
young person going through college then
going through graduate school and all
the books that I read like some of them
really stood out to me and they were
Plato's Republic which asked can there
be a just Society
and there were the gospels of Jesus
right obviously I became a religious
studies professor and there was Rene
ard's work really each of these texts
say that this is structural you know so
when you think like you know as a kid
kind of growing up with parents who were
liberal you know we got to save the
world well yeah we do have to save the
world but the thing is is that it's
structural the bad is structural right
you can't you can't do enough yes and
Gerard is interesting because yeah he
had sort of a bit of a cult following as
a professor and I think there's a
Roberto colasso quote there are foxes
and they hedgehogs you know there's
people that know a lot about a lot and
then there's somebody that knows one
thing and you can apply it's sort of
grand Theory of Everything oh yeah
that's him that's Rene and that was
Renee Gerard because he was sort of a
hedgehog yeah and in his case I think he
thought that the history of the world
was the history of violence and you had
these sort of pagan scapegoating Cycles
and there's something the only thing
that is in some sense he situates
Christianity as a non-unique religion
because it's just another scapegoating
story that's right but the way in which
it is unique is that it sort of signals
the end of History because For the First
Time The mythology and the story is
taking the side of the scapegoat and not
the mob not the masses which then you
sort of um unlock this this idea that is
both Maybe saving of humanity but also
destroying of it like it's it sort of
signals the the end of the world or
something uh because the scapegoating
rituals are cathartic control processes
to keep Society moving forward where you
have sort of rivalis interactions around
kind of desires that everybody have that
are emergent uh and the scapegoat is
then ritually sacrificed and then
Society can that pacifies society and it
and it can keep going but it can't keep
going if you know know that you're doing
a wrong thing in in scapegoating this
this character and so there's something
about Christianity which is subversive
and messes with this technology that
keeps the world going in a way that
creates sews the seeds of the Apocalypse
that's right that's right so the thing
is that we and by the way A Plus on that
thank you thank you that was really
amazing yeah um okay so the thing about
it though is that so the Christian
recognition that we killed Jesus right
we is we are the ones guilt the
depravity right yes and so he rightly
remember we talked about a defense
mechanism like a student asked me the
other day you know is there you know is
what's hopeful or can is there something
to hope for and I said yes you know but
in part of the answer she we were
talking about religion does religion
offer hope and in one sense yes but in
another sense it's a defense mechanism
right and it defends us against so you
know religion Springs up as a as a
defense against our need to be this
violent and to hurt each other like this
and to kill the neighbor you know
because we want what the neighbor has um
and Christianity that the beauty that
Gerard interprets Christianity as being
and by the way a lot of times I don't
think Christianity lives up to Gerard's
idea
because because once we then
perform this constantly we become like
you didn't even know that it was a
sacrifice this Mass you know so the
reality of it is is that we're in the
ritual and we kill we kill this innocent
victim we we're killing a perfect good
person is what we're doing and then
eating them right yeah okay so but but
once we start to do this again again and
again and again we be we just don't know
what we're doing anymore and then people
act we become programmatic people don't
have so that's why I think something
like a UFO yeah then comes in to break
that up and basically say there's
something here and it's it's actually
not within your program yes and I think
if you see the synchronicities you sort
of know you're on the right path you
know you're like you're in some like
exciting world pool if you see when you
see the signs yeah okay I learned a bit
about this actually yeah Tyson yap's
book sand talk is really good by the way
but he calls these synchronicities and
these kinds of things that happen um
extra cognitive events okay and he says
that they're Natural Things what they do
is they and I got this from studying
creativity is that they actually provide
dopamine right yeah so when you're like
doing something that's really creative
and maybe even productive like creating
a technology or something then you're
going to really enjoy it like you know
when people get into a creative space
and they just go and they can't stop
that's what's happening with them yeah
wow so it's like intermittent
reinforcement where like you get a
little dose of the dop or something
that's right that's right I kind of
think that synchronicities are more how
it actually is and that when we get out
of our program we actually go whoa okay
this is how it is but then we just go
back into our program because we're all
trained right to on a program that
brings back to the Gerard yeah that's
right that's right yeah the defense
mechanism theory yes that we have of
life that we figured out yeah we
[Applause]
did what do you think is the
relationship between time and UFOs
is there some interesting relationship
are they from the future are aliens and
closer Encounters of the Third Kind just
experiences with our future selves or
yeah what do you think yeah that's a
really good question okay so what's
really interesting is that okay so after
the you know around 2019 or so I started
to meet people who were people from
technology communities right Tech
techies basically um and a lot of them
really
resonated with Tyler and recognized
themselves and a lot of them were
creators of AI and some of them did
Quantum Computing and things like that
and so I started to engage with them
because I was learning from them and I
was learning about this whole idea of
you know what are these things right and
so I thought that their ideas were very
interesting because the the normal idea
is that they're extraterrestrial which
means that they're from another solar
system or even our solar system who
knows and they've somehow you know have
some kind of craft that comes here yeah
this is supported by Craft retrieval you
know talk and stuff like that and they
come here but um but that doesn't Accord
with what people see when they see them
in the sky you know they kind of
disappear and reappear disappear
reappear so this would suggest something
entirely different or that you know we
just don't understand that technology
that they have so AI people being um
really smart and generally very
self-confident believe that they could
figure it out so they've been talking
about the temporal aspects of it right
so there and by the way this guy named
um Stephen dick who is a NASA historian
has been for like 40 years um he's he's
now retired but he he's on the uh
research team for the Galileo project
I've corresponded with him for about a
long time for since the beginning um of
my study which is in 2012 he's been
doing this for a long time and more than
20 years ago he suggested that these
were uh AI a form of AI or that if we
met them they would be a form of AI and
so this accorded with what jacqu Val
said that they're technological right
right or it's like cellular atom yeah
these sort of control systems that it's
like if you were trying to get so this
is like rats in a prime number maze they
don't understand the concept of prime
numbers right so there's no way you can
say turn right every single time you hit
a prime number right but with pavlovian
conditioning or inter intermittent
reinforcement you could get them to run
a prime number maze they don't know what
they're doing no they're just going on
the yeah impulse to get the treat or
what but they're they're implementing
some grand plan or kind of plan in the
process a plan that you know right right
and so maybe these are AI Envoy Von
noyman replicators or something that nip
at the herd in ways that we don't it's
like why Betty and Barney Hill and why
Antonio viz boa like why these specific
people but it might be moving us uh
swaying Society in a specific theology
or something well yeah so in
conversations with some of these AI
people uh they were basically saying
that now that we've you know we have
that the discovery is is true of superp
position and this you know uh what it it
shows us is that there is this you know
Place Beyond
SpaceTime and there's information there
and so this is information coming to us
and and it's
intelligent and that it doesn't have the
same it's it doesn't have the same where
it's the carrier is different right so
it's not us yeah let's I just uh before
I don't want to forget this because we
were talking about Tyler you go to the
Vatican Observatory with him yes and he
has a conversion experience yes and so
can can we talk about that cuz that's
seems like this profound thing where he
bursts into tears and he says all I want
to do I I don't care if I ever go back
into the Space Program all I want to do
is help people yeah cuz he was really
doing a lot of this I wouldn't he he
wasn't really conscious about what he
was doing he was just doing it right
this was his job he was doing it since
he was really young and he was really
good at it he knew what to do he knew
how to do it okay so then when he met me
I told him what he was doing and that
forced him to start to think about wait
this is been happening yeah and so when
we went to the Vatican this priest comes
up to him and then they engage and then
the priest somehow immediately decides
that he's gonna take on Tyler like like
a like a mentor or something yeah and um
he even blesses the project yeah so
there's a picture of him blessing like
the project which hadn't even been named
or it may have been named I don't know
he American cosm he blessed it he's he's
just a really nice guy I'm just going to
call him father K cool father Kay would
take us to his Chapel which is outside
the Vatican in Rome it was at a hospital
and he would take us on his rounds so we
would go to the hospital in the morning
do mass and then go on his rounds and he
would take us to people who were ill
some of them terminally ill and he would
have us help him give um like
uh it's uh it's it's not mass right but
it's like it's a right of healing to
very sick people and he would do that
and some of the people made a huge
impression on Tyler because there was a
man who was fairly young and you know
was there to he was terminally ill and I
don't think that Tyler had ever been
around somebody he dedicated their lives
basically to other people I saw that he
started to get internal and started to
become like reflective about himself and
I could feel that that this was
happening but I didn't know it was going
to happen I just could sense that
something was happening like this so
then that's when we went to the
observatory and in the OB Observatory
The Observatory is the Catholic
Observatory it's run by a Jesuit monk
who's you know an astronomer MIT train
yeah yeah he's like really you know he
and Tyler could have some good
conversations right so the people that
are there and and populate the
observatory are the kind of people that
would be like in the space program but
they're super religious they're Catholic
and so I had this feeling that when
Tyler met them that it would be over for
him that he would definitely know that
that there was you know there was
something great and truthful and you
know there was something like a god
right actually strangely enough the
International Space Agency people were
there like 30 of them or so and they
were all really young yeah it was like a
whole thing for the International Space
Agency young astrophysicists and stuff
and and they actually knew who Tyler was
wow yeah because no one knows who he is
here he kind of got overcome with like I
wouldn't say emotion but maybe it was
emotion he he got overcome with like the
Epic nature of what was happening and of
what we were doing and looking at like
actual books that were written by
Copernicus like first first editions and
stuff you know I mean it was really
amazing and Copernicus had a you know he
was obviously came up with the
theoretical model that the solar system
revolves around the Sun and that we live
in a heliocentric universe but he had a
very interesting relationship with the
son it was almost like a very spiritual
Endeavor I know that oh yeah wow yeah
Isaac azimov actually has a great book
called The Kingdom of the Sun and it's
about our relationship to the sun
throughout history and there's a whole
section dedicated to cernus who was a
very mystical thinker when it came to
the fascinating I did not know that yeah
and I think of the sun too is like it's
so it's like a nuclear fusion it is a
nuclear fusion reactor yeah and it sort
of powers the Earth and and Henry buron
which we we just spoke about as you know
kind of French mystical but also kind of
science maybe pseudoscientific thinker
in the early 20th century late uh 19th
century also thought that the sun
specific speically spurred on Evolution
like it would it was somehow essential
to the evolution of mankind so maybe
it's a combination of the
electromagnetic field of the Earth the
new sphere you
know and then and then also this sort of
the Sun as well but that's fascinating
anyway back to so Tyler yeah is uh
studying this stuff and do you think it
in some ways for Tyler it was a
convergence
of Catholic faith but also his life
being D to space that was it probably
made him realize just how profoundly
meaningful his past life had been yeah I
think so I think that's exactly what
happened because I I knew that he had a
profoundly meaningful life but because
he was in this community of being secret
you know the Fight Club Community that I
discussed no one could ever know it so
then to have him recognized by
International Space scientists you know
the European International Space
scientists
it was it was a beautiful thing to tell
you the truth and um and then he he
decided to convert and um here I am
doing this you know this study for years
and years and then this kind of happens
but also what happens is he changes his
idea of what these things are that he's
feeling he's getting signals from so he
feels that they're more in line with
what because we were studying Saints who
had these experiences and he was
thinking that they're more in line with
what they were you know experiencing too
and he comes from a line you you've
talked about tski the father of Russian
rocketry or Jack Parsons who claimed to
be kind of in contact with with entities
you know War Warner Von Bron would say
all sorts of trippy stuff you know he
father of German rocketry and then went
on to run the NASA Saturn project which
took us to the moon and so is there
something about the history of America
or just space space programs in general
that is more consciousness-based than we
somehow
realize the Russian space program was
inspired by early rocket scientists like
Constantine seosi who had basically
constructed his own Cosmic religion or
worldview around space this included a
belief that humans would colonize the
Milky Way achieve immortality regulate
the forces of nature at will and
transition our biosphere into a new
sphere a mental Network he also believed
humans would achieve time travel his
American counterpart Jack Parsons was
equally unbounded by convention he was
part of the Pasadena cult Otto along
with Scientology Creator elron hubard
the two would perform sex magic rituals
and Parsons even received a past life
regression in which he was Simon of
magus a Biblical character who used
black magic to levitate all of that is
to say maybe the true history of
American and Russian space programs is
Stranger than meets the eye yes they
were doing some extraordinary types of
rituals and they definitely believed
that they were in touch with these
beings they presented them differently
so the Parsons crew yeah they were way
out there and they were doing this in
the LA desert right and stuff and they
were doing ritual magic and they believe
that they were in contact with you know
extraterrestrials and things like that
all right um in the on the Russian side
though they were doing the same thing
but it was under a Christian veneer so
josi believed that he was actually in
touch with Angelic beings and he talks
about it and writes about it and that
these beings are in constant contact
with us if we if we're able to receive
their knowledge so do you have a sense
of the relationship between the secret
space programs and religion to in its
totality do you think that these things
are two Sid of a pyramid that sort of
converge at some omega point or
something are you asking about the
religiosity of the Space Program because
there seems to be one I am asking that
is it sort of a gnostic religious
initiation process or what I'm still
trying to figure it out but I do have
some data on it yeah yeah so it looks to
be and actually strangely enough at at
the end of one of Tom delong's book
actually he talks he makes a reference
to the gods are still with us the Greek
gods are still with us which I didn't
know about actually until about 2 weeks
ago and it it was really interesting to
hear because I had just given a talk
that I didn't want recorded I went to
New York City and I was giving a talk
and the name of the talk was the Muse is
real okay I went from the very like
first idea of Muses you know thousands
of years ago for the Greeks yeah and
then how they kind of um they never
really go away so even the founding
fathers quote unquote of our country
like Benjamin Franklin did you know that
they were actually part of a Mason Lodge
that was a muse Lodge it was dedicated I
knew he was a free mason I don't know he
was part of a muse it was like the Seven
Sisters the yeah it was a French Muse
LOD talk about a guy with a million
ideas he invented the bif focals uh a
certain type of harps Accord you know
famously was involved in electricity
experiment like he was a complete
polymath and so was probably tapped into
all sort interesting well they knew it
to be real that's what I was saying in
my talk was that it wasn't just
something that we think of them today
the muses and we often think of them as
just like motifs or allegories or you
know but we never actually think of them
as something that could be real yeah
well the atmology of the word genius is
attendant spirit and it's kind of
original right that's right that's right
okay a lot of our words come from music
by the way like museums is about the in
fact museums were supposed to contain
the spirit of the muses did you know
that I isn't it interesting that we have
a lot of museums in DC and a lot of
architecture about the muses it's
everywhere well it's also in the space
program so what I found was that when
Tyler would do these launches there
would be a lot of iconography that he
didn't actually understand when I met
him I would ask him I say why are they
using this Greek goddess you know
and he's like is that a Greek goddess it
is indeed and they would use Latin and
they would send it up into space really
yeah and so he said that and by the way
it wasn't medieval Latin which is a
Catholic form of Latin a Roman Catholic
form it was it was like first second
century type of Latin which is Roman
Empire Latin you know what does this
mean I don't know other than that I
think that there's almost like a
parallel type of religion that's
happening well we have a ual friend Dr
IA Whitley you introduced me to her new
friend for me she's written about in
your next book encounters which is
Incredible Book right and I think what
she talks about and writes about and
deals with in her professional life is
when you talk about space technology
whether it's rocketry or anything else
it's so complicated and it's so hard to
get right even SpaceX succeeded on its
fourth attempt when it was on the verge
of failure and bankruptcy and it was
almost like a spiritual Reckoning that
Elon had to go through where he put half
his money in and almost failed and then
it finally worked and that almost feels
like the story again and again jack
Parson's famously said after he read the
golden Bow by JG Fraser he said uh I
read that book and I realized science is
a form of magic and not vice versa which
no other scientist or engineer would
ever say but it's it humbled him so much
making rocketry and so what somebody
like IO Whitley deals with is once
you've dotted all the eyes and and
crossed all the tees the tech is so
complex that if there's any sort of Mind
matter interaction you have to get that
right too in the case of space that's
right and so she deals with like the the
you know the mentality of of a fighter
pile and McDonald Douglas which is an
aerospace Corporation at washu in St
Louis had a
paraschos space was definitely
interested in parapsychology at some
point yep and the dirty little secret
about parapsychology is your internal
State really dictates how good you are
at the thing it's almost like the book
of Acts with Jesus where you have to
reach a certain level spiritually to to
do well with it yeah so like your body's
an instrument yeah and it and it begs
this question because 2017 and on is
When the UFO thing really started to
become more popular and kind of in the
zi since Leslie Kane wrote her article
about you know atip and the fact that we
even had a you know UFO program but that
was the same year that due to a loss
uh the Stargate stuff you know the
psychic spy program was actually sort of
rested from the government and made
public and so there's a part of me that
thinks that maybe there's more of an
emphasis on nuts and bolts and actually
the the more interesting stuff is sort
of parapsychological and involves mind
over matter and Consciousness but what
do you think yes I I absolutely agree
with that so the thing is is that you
know here you have in 2013 M you know I
I began my study in 2012 do the normal
academic search for the Space Program
information immediately see how much is
classified and that I can't do that and
then think okay I can do field research
right and I can learn from people which
is you know your next best bet right and
not that I'm trying to uncover anything
to tell you the truth because I don't
actually care to tell you I mean
honestly I didn't go in with any kind of
an agenda yeah I just went in because I
was curious and I saw that my former
research basically you know my former
research was basically on aerial
phenomena in Catholic history but
interpreted as angels and souls from
purgatory yeah you know so I've been
doing the research I just it was post
20th century and so then I recognized
that it was still happening and I
thought very interesting and so that's
what got me interested in doing that but
I think this whole Focus I don't want to
be conspiratorial but yeah this whole
focus on nuts and bolts takes us away
from what I found really to be the case
and it sounds like they were interested
in your work on so Joseph the Divine
could levitate and much other kind of
historical figures in in Catholic
history that could literally levitate I
remember one time I was talking with Hal
put off and he said to me I was like
going really deep on science and like
you know uh vector and scaler potentials
that the you know kind of a Quantum
field breaks down into and how that
could you know be uh the the mechanism
through which telepathy occurs you know
whatever and he just I remember he cuts
me off and he goes or it could be a
medieval secret society that knows how
to levitate and they put these metal
capsules around them and I was like what
like that was the weirdest thing he had
ever said and I was and I just remember
that forever like it was as if maybe the
levitation history that that you know is
is somehow tied in with uh yeah the UFO
story and maybe we're we go down these
really deep rabbit holes of Science and
you know uh uh how to how to reconcile
UFOs with you know we talk about Al kuer
you know warp drives and whatever and
maybe it's just sort of the human body
is somehow way more integral to this it
seems like it's not just the human body
in and of itself it's like groups of
people too because I noticed that there
was a lot of so I I have because you
know I've been a scholar of Catholic
history and I'm in ation with Hal
actually about these very things about
levitation in the past and levitation
here now and um and looking at the data
right yeah and so what's interesting and
I have looked at so much data I mean I
have the Joseph of copertino Records
right yeah and been reading them and
they're pretty intense
and it's really difficult to read
through the whole thing without coming
away saying heck yeah that guy levitated
right Joseph of copertino was a 17th
century friend Franciscan frier that
would experience ecstatic Visions as a
child and many people witnessed him
levitating while participating in
Mass he was deemed Holy by many of these
Witnesses which the church thought was
subversive eventually they imprisoned
him in a small cell forbidding him to
join any public gatherings in the
community he had his own strict
Protocols of aism only eating solid food
twice a week and adding bitter powders
to all his
meals and so when I started to look back
at some of the research data that I had
from my Catholic history stuff I started
to notice the people who were the people
who were said to have levitated or who
received these miraculous interventions
and things they seem to either be doing
protocols or they were children or they
were somehow childlike or had a
childlike goodness about them and so I
don't know I haven't concluded anything
about this this is just very initial
data collection Mar do you have anything
let me
see just something like in in the book
while I was listening that that that you
keep coming back to is the idea that you
can't take the context outside of the
experience of the experiencer and and in
a culture and in a and in a in a moment
of time where we're so obsessed on you
know a hyper indexing of data and
collecting more and doing more it was
very it was a fresh perspective to
to really get to fully consider
someone's full story and the
circumstances that they come with for
why they might have had that experience
that was more of a statement not a
question where am I going but it
actually helps me because I I was going
to bring that up okay amazing so when we
look at the history of uaps here in the
states right okay we've got actually
three Traditions research traditions we
have the invisible tradition represented
I would say by people like Alan highneck
okay so they're in the intelligence
community and there are things going on
and there's research going on but it's
not public at all it's not transparent
for probably good reasons and then what
happens is that you get people like who
do it as their hobby so you get
euphology and it's public facing and
it's public scholarship about
UFOs and then from there you get
academic scholarship okay so you have
again you have people like
John Mack John Mack comes along he's a
Harvard University psychiatrist and he's
he's actually in conversation with Bud
Hopkins he's looking at experiencers and
then what we have is we have a fourth
tradition all right and that fourth
tradition has just Arisen in the last
less than 10 years okay and I use myself
as an example of it because you have
somebody who stumbles upon something
that I'd never thought to study but
recognizes that I've been studying
something similar to it if not it my
entire life and meets this person named
Tyler who's part of the first tradition
right the secret tradition and what
happens is a collaboration and then a
transparency that we've never seen
before and so what do we call this
fourth tra tradition okay what do we
call this fourth tradition all right so
what I've tried to do is I tried to say
hm what kind of tradition would this be
and I thought you know the strange thing
about it let me actually talk about the
context of it the research context we
never talk about that what's the
research context well we we you and I
just talked about Jack Parsons and
chovsky in Russia so we actually talked
about the context of them creating
something entirely novel that actually
does something operational and gets us
off of earth right and so I decided to
look at my context the research context
between somebody in religious studies
and somebody in the space force boom
collaborating almost accidentally it's
emergent yes it's an emergent thing so
what comes out of it is completely what
people use the term emergence for you
know something bigger than its parts
because we're just these kind of parts
that come together right and all of a
sudden we work together and something
comes out of it well that that I think
brings us to a question which is like
are we on the verge of an
epistemological paradigm shift cuz I
think about the invisible College which
was jlen heck's group with jacqu Valle
which is a tongue and- cheek reference
to Robert Bo's invisible College which
was kind of at the start of the
Enlightenment they would sort of study
science which at the time was considered
heretical and outside of the confin of
the church it was dangerous and I think
about how the enlightenment started and
and there's a good book by Francis
yeetes about sort of the rosac crucian
roots of the Enlightenment and the
invisible college is sort of a rosac
crucian oh it totally is term and the
goal of Rosicrucianism was sort of to
marry the science and the spirit a lot
of the early um Enlightenment proponents
were also Alchemists and it feels like
we are now living in a time where
science is you have kind of Richard
Dawkins Sam Harris like very shrill kind
of um Defenders of the materialist
Paradigm and then you have kind of
dogmatic religious fundamentalists and
they have bifurcated or cleaved since
the Enlightenment and now emergently
they're coming together like the fact
that a religious studies Professor is
collaborating with the secret space
program person he's a mission controller
who's worked on all these missions since
the Challenger in the ' 80s is wild and
so where where are we headed yeah well
that's the thing so um I was trying to
quantify it today you know so to kind of
say well what can I lead people with and
I thought that's probably not the best
thing to do because I'm just a part the
idea of
disclosure uh as it's currently
happening being a very Colonial concept
because it assumes that it's like this
new found like we're discovering this
for the first time I think when we are
trying when we try to reduce things so
much to like the observables that we can
write in these specific formats and we
and now and we think that the human the
human account of a story is the weakest
I mean we Johnny Harris is really like
the weakest scientific measurement is
when you actually rely the human story
and I'm like but what else do we
have yeah so uh yeah that part was F I
had never heard that perspective and it
clicked it clicked so well a reflection
I I know that's what I so that's part of
also the reason that I wrote it was that
disclosure can only happen because the
US government has the information right
exactly and it's like really and that
but you talk to other countries and you
talk to people in um Native American
tribes exactly yeah AB original
Australians indigenous Australian tribes
and they've had they even even have
these you know different initiation
Ceremonies for it just like you and I
talked about the merba tradition you
know and so yeah so I just wanted to put
a light on that just to kind of I don't
think I could ever balance out that that
discourse that's happening now but I
wanted to put it out there there is some
hubis in saying we are now going through
disclosure or whatever and it it is what
frustrates me about the sometimes the
super anti UFO people and often the
anti- people UFO people like were super
pro UFO like it's two sides of the same
coin and it's like you're relying too
much on the Intel Community like CU
sometimes people will come after me
because I I interview people in that
world or whatever and I'm like they
could flip tomorrow and it wouldn't
change my belief in this stuff because I
know there's so much outside of what
they're talking about and maybe there
are ways in which the government is
spinning things but like I don't care
there's so much open-source knowledge
you're over relying on the government in
studying this and I think encounters is
a really great kind of comprehensive
overview of how you can study this
outside of official channels do you ever
get skeptical when you hear like when we
the biologics thing messes with me and
it messes you know sometimes it's I do
think this is It's the interesting thing
about the UFO phenomena is that it is
the intersection between something
that's a little parapsychological and
Consciousness based but it's also sort
of objective and real and that's really
interesting and cool but when I hear
people say you know there are these many
races and it's like Grays and Tall
whites and reptilians or something I
don't know there's a part of me that
believes it I'm like okay maybe but then
there's another part of me that just
feels like I have like an allergic
reaction to I'm like this is impos like
even my I have a very open I'm very high
in the openness scale and I'm like I
don't know do you have any beliefs about
that or well I mean I'm used to hearing
stuff like this because I study religion
yeah so in religions you have those
things too like you have non-human
intelligences of All Sorts that are
identified like you know um the medieval
angelology right of you know so of the
Catholic Church you know they describe
the different angels and what they do
and you know things like that so to me
it's like this taxonomy of entities
right that people are now doing with DMT
right kind of interesting to me you know
maybe there are these things in these
other dimensions that are like if two
people sit down and they're taking you
know DMT or they're doing and they have
the same experience but they don't talk
to each other like what's going on this
is like Andrew gallamore and the
Imperial College and stuff they're sort
of mapping the the spirit world and then
it's really interesting I mean it's
interesting as long as you don't become
literally a Believer well do you think
any of these things are walking Among Us
I know who it is it doesn't belong Among
Us oh go like when you read like
penetration by Ino Swan or something and
he's like you know he's this a famous
remote viewer who's like involved in the
beginning of the Start program but then
you read you're halfway into the book
and he's like and then I'm at the
supermarket and I see one and you're
like what like and she's beautiful and
she's I she's ravishing and she's
ravishing so these things you see in
religious Traditions too yeah and you
also see them in somebody just emailed
me and told me about Traditions like
that in Haiti you know and that you know
he came to the United States and he
could believe that we didn't have any
belief in this at all when he would see
things like that when he was there okay
and um okay so what do I think about
that there are things we don't quite
understand
about well there's so many things we
don't understand I mean what am I going
to say it's like there's the these kinds
of questions I don't think I could say
publicly well I tend to think human
biology is fairly what what always
interests me is the variance of humans
like I meet certain people and I'm like
you are on some other thing and then I
tend to think in a lot of these cases
I'm like but you're you bleed real blood
you're just like the line you
bleed normal blood and you you go to the
bathroom and you know you your body
functions in a biologically human way
but you are sort of very tapped into
something else okay so there's a couple
stuff and this is my non-public research
yeah so I can't actually talk about it
but I can answer your question if you
want okay all right so when I'm doing
I've done some research with people who
talk about either mediumship or or even
possession and what you find is that the
the boy who was at the basis that he was
his story was used for The Exorcist the
first Exorcist movie uh who then turned
out to be like an aerospace engineer I
guess did you hear about that that boy I
know yeah he grew up to be like an
aerospace engineer whoa yeah yeah I
worked for NASA I think crazy okay so
listen though is that while after you
know because it took a while for him to
get deposed apparently okay so this is
the story but afterwards there would he
had he went to the bathroom a lot he
urinated like tons and tons and tons and
tons so much that people are like how
are you even it's not even possible okay
well you also see this with other kinds
of like mediumship and and things like
that so something is happening
physiologically to them and I don't know
what it is but it has to do with water
and hydration hydration yeah well I
could I did you know the memory of water
stuff out of Jaan so it's like maybe
water holds more semantic content than
we than we realize or something but I I
had a like an experience at Skinwalker
Ranch I smelled sulfur there yes and
that's right it's common common it's a
sign of like the devil and and I
proceeded to have the worst month of my
life and then at the end of the month I
felt like I was saved by God like God
swooped in and saved me and I pray I
prayed the the whole mon it was horrible
like every day like some gnarly weird
like in a dark energy Vortex and it I
and there's on camera there's a video of
me just candidly being like I smelled
something weird and it smells like
sulfur it smelled like the sulfur or
whatever oh really you know that's I
this right no so this is a hydrogen
sulfate gas monitor yeah and because you
know like in mines and things like that
that gas people smell the sulfur smell
beforeand so I wear this so that if
someone says that they smell something
like that we know whether it's really
gas or if it's something happening up
here cuz people that have had instances
is anything coming up okay
so like what is that are we s in a soup
of this stuff like it's it's kind of
yeah yeah so I guess that I guess that's
the sobering moment right the sobering
moment is to recognize
that it's it's a real kind of phenomenon
is that why it's being hidden from us
like sometimes I think Carl Sean who
grew up writing about UFOs in his diary
and would debate with his mentor all the
time about them and then somehow flipped
into being super anti- UFO you know him
writing the demon Haunted World I think
of that as somewhat of a double on
Tandra and like maybe it's like the
world is haunted by demons literally
yeah and then it's like the screw tape
letters you have to be like very
hypervigilant about following The Godly
path whatever that is and like ending
them off cuz you have like wormwood and
screw tape and you know a bunch of bad
entities well I think that we can safely
say that evil is real evil is very real
cuz look we have human trafficking and
things like that these are evil but
we're talking about like Supernatural
evil yeah because you know the human
trafficking is human evil right but
we're talking about something called
Supernatural evil so it's another
category of evil that we're talking
about and I think when you get into the
UFO scenario you know when you start to
to go into the communities and you're
you know a little bit self-aware you
know it it does that thing that you
explained earlier you know it's like a
forcing function yes and it causes you
to see the reality of things that we
weren't taught to believe in because we
live in a fairly secular society even if
we're religious we're still SEC secular
right so it's like the re-enchantment of
the world like it really is are we on
the verge of a paradigm shift a
re-enchantment of of the world a
breakdown of the cold scientific
Paradigm that's run its course science
has become the pervasive mythology of
our time it has a founding myth the big
bang a miraculous event for which we
don't really have too many plausible
causal explanations a teolog of
primitive to progress Evolution which
makes us feel safe and rituals that
involve lab codes speakers and
microscopes to gain deeper access to the
secrets of the universe in other words
it has all of the elements of a religion
yes scientific breakthroughs require
domain expertise hard work time and
diligence but then there's a final step
that no one can dissect involving
spontaneous Revelation whether that's
Einstein constructing the photoelectric
effect while bored at his Swiss patent
desk Wolf Gang poy dreaming up the
architecture of the hydrogen atom
Heisenberg at helgoland or dck staring
at the fire in Cambridge this last
revelational step of science is
inexplicable and irreducible and it
seems a lot like what we used to call
divine inspiration so what drives these
epistemological shifts that seem to
occur for mankind throughout history
well in her latest book called
encounters Diana writes that she
refrained from teaching her students one
thing about Plato's Cave allegory the
existence of the Puppet Masters who's
controlling the Shadows on the cave wall
we see who's dropping the monolith and
manipulating our
reality
let's talk about Simone yes okay so
Simone's in in the book I have a chapter
devoted to her she does believe that
we're living in a time of a revelation
literally though and what is being
revealed is that we is AI and AI she
thinks is hopeful because it will take
the power out of a group that has had it
for a very long time and distributed
it's kind of like another French
Revolution but a definitive depending on
how it goes it could be like the
Gutenberg Press or and it's subversive
or it could be you know Biden just came
out with regulations around it and there
are a few companies that feel like
they're really on the frontier of I
think AGI is overhyped in BS but like
you know the harder core research and
then you have the CCP using AI for
draconian 1984 like purposes and so I I
do think it could go either way it's
like up to us like history is being
written all the UFOs are similar these
sort of like generic templates like AI
UFOs and it's almost like this Golem
like thing that we're actively creating
and they can be evil or they can and
totalitarian or they can be good and
personally see this is where I kind of
differ okay Jess let's get into it yeah
okay so the how I differ is I don't
think it's up to us the only thing
that's up to us is our personal
salvation ah I love that totally and
when I say personal salvation I'm not
talking about that in a strictly
Christian way I'm talking like about
that in a human way every every one of
us has we you know what that means right
when I say that we're all implicated
every one of us and and that's necessary
now totally necessary like you said
that's why I like your idea of the
forcing function of the UFO and AI yes
and so that's good yeah yeah yeah well
worshiping them is bad both oh of course
like I I met I interviewed the Google
engineer that left because he thought
that Lambda was or whatever and I came
away thinking cuz I actually worked in
AI at Google before getting my job yeah
yeah yeah and I came away and I always
was cynical about the AGI narrative the
idea that we'll have some hard takeoff
and artificial general intelligence will
realize that human meat space is like
not being used efficiently and like kill
us all or whatever I just always was
kind of cynical about that and I think
it's mostly statistics on steroid and
not sensient not actually conscious but
I came away from that interview being
shocked at his belief and like I
couldn't argue with his belief and some
people might think that my own belief in
UFOs is similar or something and so I
was like the whether or not the AI is
conscious or not the the sociological um
repercussions of people imping
Consciousness yes on the AI that is
going to be drastic and massive yes the
same with the
yeah exactly exactly yes I totally you
sound like a religious study scholar you
know you're doing the meta look at it
instead of like you know just taking it
at face value like the belief in it is
the issue it doesn't matter whether it's
real or not right well and then if you
have a Paras pychological
worldview where belief is fundamental
then all of a sudden you know that's a
false dichotomy and that's like the most
powerful thing what humans believe or if
you're a follower of PL belief is
somehow just Central to where Society
goes and what happens but the thing that
we're asking now is you know at the at
this time in human history I think that
we need to see ourselves how do how you
know the Greek would be like noesis
knowledge of your primordial Soul how do
you there's clearly no you know formula
well there kind of is and what is it
it's like self-examination yes it's like
how do you feel now why do you feel that
way yeah you know somebody comes into
your space are they in need you know oh
what are you going to do about it kind
of thing like that like these are the
kinds of things that um that we just
need to we need to pay attention to us
and like I said the UFO is probably out
there to to get us out of our program so
we can actually do some self-examination
how do you feel now pretty
awesome me too
yeah in encounters Diana also interviews
a friend who's was allegedly part of one
of the secret American space programs
something like the one Tyler from
American Cosmic was in one thing her
friend told Diana about her father gave
me goosebumps and will probably stay
with me forever she says a joke my
father and his friends often exchange
consisted of one word
simulacrum can I make one more point
with you okay
uh if you want to shatter the Western
mental stru structures the the Western
mind so to speak which is now permeating
the whole earth in its materialist
dualistic
philosophy the way you do it is you take
something that's supposed to be in the
spirit world because even in the west we
can make allowance for the spirit world
and we can study it through mythology
through religion through imagination
through poetry but the one unforgivable
sin to the Western mind is when
something that should be in the spirit
world transgresses and shows up in the
physical world that traffic is the
cardinal sin for the Western mind so it
has great power to shatter the belief
structure of a western mind when that
occurs and that's precisely what's
occurring in this abduction
phenomenon very good point thanks very
much for talking with
me good good
good